README git


GIT SERVER
==========

The following instructions will install a git server.  It will be set up to
use OpenSSH as the secure remote access method.


1. Set Up Users, Groups, and Permissions.
-----------------------------------------

You will need to be user root for the initial portion of configuration.
Create the git user and group and set an unusable password hash with the
following commands:

	groupadd -g 58 git
	useradd -m -g git -s /usr/bin/git-shell -u 58 git
	sed -i '/^git:/s/^git:[^:]:/git:NP:/' /etc/shadow

Putting in an unusable password hash (replacing the ! by NP) unlocks the
account but it cannot be used to login via password authentication.  That is
required by sshd to work properly.  Next, create some files and directories in
the home directory of the git user allowing access to the git repository using
ssh keys.

	install -o git -g git -m 0700 -d /home/git/.ssh
	install -o git -g git -m 0600 /dev/null /home/git/.ssh/authorized_keys

For any developer who should have access to the repository add his/her public
ssh key to /home/git/.ssh/authorized_keys.  First, prepend some options to
prevent users from using the connection to git for port forwarding to other
machines the git server might reach.

	cat <<EOF | sudo tee -a /home/git/.ssh/authorized_keys
no-port-forwarding,no-X11-forwarding,no-agent-forwarding,no-pty
EOF
	cat <user-ssh-key> | sudo tee -a /home/git/.ssh/authorized_keys

It is also useful to set the default name of the initial branch of new
repositories by modifying the git configuration.  As the root user, run:

	git config --system init.defaultBranch master

Finally add the /usr/bin/git-shell entry to the /etc/shells configuration
file.  This shell has been set in the git user profile and is to make sure
that only git related actions can be executed:

	vim /etc/shells


2. Create a git repository.
---------------------------

The repository can be anywhere on the filesystem. It is important that the git
user has read/write access to that location.  We use /srv/git as base
directory.  Create a new git repository with the following commands (as the
root user):

	NOTE:  In all the instructions below, we use project1 as an example
	repository name.  You should name your repository as a short
	descriptive name for your specific project. 

	install -o git -g git -m 0755 -d /srv/git/project1.git
	cd /srv/git/project1.git
	git init --bare
	chown -R git:git .

You may clone existing repository from other machine:

	mkdir /srv/git
	cd /srv/git
	git clone --bare git@gitserver/project1.git
	chown -R git:git .


3. Populate the repository from a client system.
------------------------------------------------

	IMPORTANT:  All the instructions in this section and the next should
	be done on a user system, not the server system.

Now that the repository is created, it can be used by the developers to put
some files into it.  Once the ssh key of the user is imported to git's
authorized_keys file, the user can interact with the repository.

A minimal configuration should be available on the developer's system
specifying its user name and the email address.  Create this minimal
configuration file on client side:

	cat > ~/.gitconfig <<EOF
	[user]
	name = <users-name>
	email = <users-email-address>
	EOF

On the developer's machine, set up some files to be pushed to the repository
as the initial content:

	IMPORTANT:  The gitserver term used below should be the host name (or
	IP address) of the git server.

	mkdir myproject
	cd myproject
	git init --initial-branch=master
	git remote add origin ssh://git@gitserver:/srv/git/project1.git
	cat >README <<EOF
	This is the README file
	EOF
	git add README
	git commit -m 'Initial creation of README'
	git push --set-upstream origin master

The initial content is now pushed to the server and is available for other
users.  On the current machine, the argument  --set-upstream origin trunk is
now no longer required as the local repository is now connected to the remote
repository.  Subsequent pushes can be performed as

	git push

Other developers can now clone the repository and do modifications to the
content (as long as their ssh keys has been installed):

	git clone git@gitserver:/srv/git/project1.git
	cd project1
	vi README
	git commit -am 'Fix for README file'
	git push

	NOTE: This is a very basic server setup based on OpenSSH access.  All
	developers are using the git user to perform actions on the repository
	and the changes users are committing can be distinguished as the local
	user name (see ~/.gitconfig) is recorded in the changesets.

Access is restricted by the public keys added to git's authorized_keys file
and there is no option for the public to export/clone the repository.  To
enable this, continue with step 4 to set up the git server for public
read-only access.

In the URL used to clone the project, the absolute path (here
/srv/git/project1.git) has to be specified as the repository is not in git's
home directory but in  /srv/git.  To get rid of the need to expose the
structure of the server installation, a symlink can be added in git's home
directory for each project like this:

	ln -svf /srv/git/project1.git /home/git/

Now, the repository can be cloned using:

	git clone git@gitserver:project1.git


4. Configure the Server.
------------------------

The setup described above makes a repository available for authenticated users
(via providing the ssh public key file).  There is also a simple way to
publish the repository to unauthenticated users -- of course without write
access.

The combination of access via ssh (for authenticated users) and the export of
repositories to unauthenticated users via the daemon is in most cases enough
for a development site.

	NOTE:  The daemon will be reachable at port 9418 by default.  Make
	sure that your firewall setup allows access to that port.

In order to allow git to export a repository, a file named
git-daemon-export-ok  is required in each repository directory on the server.
The file needs no content, just its existence enables, its absence disables
the export of that repository.

	touch /srv/git/project1.git/git-daemon-export-ok

To start the server, edit the git-daemon RC script included in the git
package: 

	vim /etc/rc.d/gitd

The script to start the git daemon uses some default values internally.  Most
important is the path to the repository directory which is set to /srv/git.
In case you have for whatever reason created the repository in a different
location, you'll need to tell the RC script where the repository is to be
found.

After modifying some defaults in  /etc/rc.d/gitd, you need to prevent the loss
of your data upon update.  Make sure you edited /etc/pkgadd.conf  and added
the following line:

	UPGRADE    ^/etc/rc.d/gitd$    NO

To start the server at boot time, add the  gitd  into the  SERVICE variable in
/etc/rc.conf:

	SERVICE='... gitd'


GITWEB
======

The following instructions will configure the gitweb service using gitweb(1)
and lighttpd(8).


Configure gitweb.
-----------------

First, we need to make a gitweb configuration file.  Open /etc/gitweb.conf  or
create if it doesn't exist) with the following content:

	#
	# /etc/gitweb.conf: Gitweb configuration file
	#

	# The directories where your projects are.  Must not end with
	# a slash.
	our $projectroot = "/path/to/your/repos";

	# Base URLs for links displayed in the web interface.
	our @git_base_url_list = qw(
		git://<your server>
		ssh://git@<your server>/srv/git
		);

	# vim: ft=perl
	# End of file.


Configure lighttpd.
-------------------

Adjust your  /etc/lighttpd.conf  to the following setup:

	#
	# /etc/lighttpd.conf: lighttpd(8) configuration
	#

	# to use mod_rewrite you have to compile lighttpd with libpcre
	# installed
	server.modules = ("mod_accesslog")
	server.modules += (
		"mod_alias", "mod_cgi", "mod_redirect", "mod_setenv"
	)
	url.redirect += ("^/gitweb$" => "/gitweb/")
	alias.url += ("/gitweb/" => "/usr/share/gitweb/")

	server.port = 80
	server.username = "www"
	server.groupname = "www"
	server.pid-file = "/run/lighttpd.pid"

	# ssl support
	#server.port = 443
	#ssl.engine = "enable"
	#ssl.pemfile = "/etc/ssl/certs/lighttpd.pem"

	# chrooted operation
	#server.chroot = "/var/www/lighttpd"
	#server.document-root = "/htdocs"
	#server.errorlog = "/logs/error_log"
	#server.upload-dirs = ( "/tmp" )
	#accesslog.filename = "/logs/access_log"

	# non-chrooted operation
	server.document-root = "/usr/src/zeppe-lin.github.io"
	server.errorlog = "/var/www/lighttpd/logs/error_log"
	accesslog.filename = "/var/www/lighttpd/logs/access_log"

	server.dir-listing = "enable"
	server.indexfiles = (
		"index.html", "index.htm", "default.htm", "gitweb.cgi"
	)

	mimetype.assign = (
		...

		# Needed for Gitweb to display properly.
		".css" => "text/css",
	)

	$HTTP["url"] =~ "^/gitweb/" {
		setenv.add-environment = (
			"GITWEB_CONFIG" => "/etc/gitweb.conf",
			"PATH" => env.PATH
		)
		cgi.assign = (".cgi" => "")
		server.indexfiles = ("gitweb.cgi")
	}

	# End of file.


End of file.
